omtd-share-annotations-doc/src/main/asciidoc/user-guide/annotation.adoc, before:

[[sect_annotation]]

== Annotating components

Java classes can be directly annotated with OpenMinTeD-SHARE metadata so you do not have to manually
maintain a separate XML file. The OpenMinTeD-SHARE Maven Plugin can then be used to generate the
OpenMinTeD-SHARE descriptor automatically as part of a build.

.Example OpenMinTeD-SHARE annotations on a Java class
[source,java]
----
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.Component;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.constants.OperationType;

@Component(classes=OperationType.READER)
class TextCorpusReader
----

=== Documentation

In addition to the descriptions obtained from the native framework descriptors, it is possible to
reference external documentation or publications. URLs referring to such external resources may
contain placeholders such as `version` or `command`. In addition, properties defined in the 
configuration section of the OMTD-SHARE Maven plugin in the Maven POM are interpolated. This is
useful e.g. to centrally configure a documentation base URL.

.Built-in properties
|====
| Property | Description

| version  | Component version
| command  | Command registered in the first distribution info section of the OMTD-SHARE descriptor
|====

.External documentation URL example (Java)
[source,java]
----
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.Component;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.DocumentationResource;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.constants.OperationType;

@Component(classes=OperationType.READER)
@DocumentationResource("${docbase}/${version}/${command}.html")
class TextCorpusReader
----

.External documentation URL example (Maven POM)
[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
  <groupId>eu.openminted.share.annotations</groupId>
  <artifactId>omtd-share-annotations-maven-plugin</artifactId>
  <configuration>
    <properties>
      <docbase>http://mywebsite.com/docs</docbase>
    </properties>
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----


=== Parameters

The parameters of a component are picked up from the native component annotations, e.g. 
`@ConfigurationParameter` (UIMA/uimaFIT) or (`@Parameter`) (GATE).

==== Hiding parameters

Some parameters offered by the components are not suitable for OpenMinTeD, e.g. because they
require the specification of a file system path which is not reasonably possible on the OMTD
platform. Thus, it is sensible to hide such parameters from users of the OMTD platform. 

NOTE: Hidden parameters must either be optional or they must provide a default value. 

.Example of hiding a parameter (UIMA/uimaFIT)
[source,java]
----
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.Component;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.Parameters;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.constants.OperationType;

@Component(classes=OperationType.READER)
@Parameters(exclude = TextCorpusReader.PARAM_HIDDEN)
class TextCorpusReader 
    extends JCasAnnotator_ImplBase
{
    /**
     * Hidden parameter.
     */
    public static final String PARAM_HIDDEN = "hidden";
    @ConfigurationParameter(name = PARAM_HIDDEN, mandatory = true, defaultValue = "val")
    private String hidden;
----

Commit message:

#42 - Resource documentation metadata
- Added "shortClassName" property

omtd-share-annotations-doc/src/main/asciidoc/user-guide/annotation.adoc, after:

[[sect_annotation]]

== Annotating components

Java classes can be directly annotated with OpenMinTeD-SHARE metadata so you do not have to manually
maintain a separate XML file. The OpenMinTeD-SHARE Maven Plugin can then be used to generate the
OpenMinTeD-SHARE descriptor automatically as part of a build.

.Example OpenMinTeD-SHARE annotations on a Java class
[source,java]
----
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.Component;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.constants.OperationType;

@Component(classes=OperationType.READER)
class TextCorpusReader
----

=== Documentation

In addition to the descriptions obtained from the native framework descriptors, it is possible to
reference external documentation or publications. URLs referring to such external resources may
contain placeholders such as `version` or `command`. In addition, properties defined in the 
configuration section of the OMTD-SHARE Maven plugin in the Maven POM are interpolated. This is
useful e.g. to centrally configure a documentation base URL.

.Built-in properties
|====
| Property | Description

| version  | Component version
| command  | Command registered in the first distribution info section of the OMTD-SHARE descriptor
| shortClassName | If the command contains dots, this property addresses the substring starting after the last dot
|====

.External documentation URL example (Java)
[source,java]
----
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.Component;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.DocumentationResource;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.constants.OperationType;

@Component(classes=OperationType.READER)
@DocumentationResource("${docbase}/${version}/${command}.html")
class TextCorpusReader
----

.External documentation URL example (Maven POM)
[source,xml]
----
<plugin>
  <groupId>eu.openminted.share.annotations</groupId>
  <artifactId>omtd-share-annotations-maven-plugin</artifactId>
  <configuration>
    <properties>
      <docbase>http://mywebsite.com/docs</docbase>
    </properties>
  </configuration>
</plugin>
----


=== Parameters

The parameters of a component are picked up from the native component annotations, e.g. 
`@ConfigurationParameter` (UIMA/uimaFIT) or (`@Parameter`) (GATE).

==== Hiding parameters

Some parameters offered by the components are not suitable for OpenMinTeD, e.g. because they
require the specification of a file system path which is not reasonably possible on the OMTD
platform. Thus, it is sensible to hide such parameters from users of the OMTD platform. 

NOTE: Hidden parameters must either be optional or they must provide a default value. 

.Example of hiding a parameter (UIMA/uimaFIT)
[source,java]
----
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.Component;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.Parameters;
import eu.openminted.share.annotations.api.constants.OperationType;

@Component(classes=OperationType.READER)
@Parameters(exclude = TextCorpusReader.PARAM_HIDDEN)
class TextCorpusReader 
    extends JCasAnnotator_ImplBase
{
    /**
     * Hidden parameter.
     */
    public static final String PARAM_HIDDEN = "hidden";
    @ConfigurationParameter(name = PARAM_HIDDEN, mandatory = true, defaultValue = "val")
    private String hidden;
----
